---
layout: post
title: Global Analytics in the Face of Bandwidth and Regulatory Constraints
description: 
category: big-data
tags: geo-dist-analytics
comments: true
---

Takeaways from *Global Analytics in the Face of Bandwidth and Regulatory Constraints, Vulimiri et al, NSDI, 2015.*

### Existing Approach
- Existing Approach for Global Analytics: Transfer data to a central data center.
- Issues:
	- Transfers significant data volumes.
	- Limit on the number of applications due to limited cross-border network bandwidth.
	- Network capacity growth is decelerating.
	- Regulatory constraints on data movement.
 
### Problem Geode tries to solve:
Provide wide area analytics while minimizing bandwidth over geo-distributed data structured as SQL tables.

### Assumption
Resources within a single data center are relatively cheap compared to cross-data center bandwidth.
 
### Architecture.
- Central Command Layer.
- Thin proxy layer atop local analytics stack.
- Central Workload Optimizer.
 
### Details.
- Subquery Deltas.
	- Cache query results at the source and destination with the query's signature.
	- Instead of sending fresh results, send only a diff (delta) between the new and old results.
	- Cache results on a sub-query basis.
 
- Workload Optimizer.
	- Identify optimal centralized plan. 
	- Use default Calcite implementation.
	- Rough SQL table statistics in Hive to get an optimized join algorithm selection.
	- Use pseudo-distributed measurement to estimate data movement.
	- Simulate a virtual topology in which each base data partition is a separate datacenter, even if the data is centralized.
	- Achieved by rewriting SQL queries to simulate data partitions.
	- Evaluate alternative data partitions to get an indication of optimal. To reduce the sample space, do a worst case evaluation (worst data partition).
	- Combine all measurements to jointly solve site selection and data replication problem.
	- Formulate an ILP to jointly solve both problems to minimize total bandwidth cost.
	- Due to scalability constraints, alternatively use greedy approach.
	- Solve site selection problem in isolation based on sovereignity constraints.
	- Greedily pick the datacenter to copy input data needed per-task based on lowest cost.